---
layout: post
title:  "What Is Cairn?"
date:   2016-12-09 13:12:54 -0500
categories: cairn
author: Justin Bakse
---

Cairn is a two-player asymmetric cooperative puzzle-platformer. Player one plays in virtual reality as an owl-god, trapped in the shattered remains of a towering prison.
The owl-god has the ability to reconfigure the ruins but her movement is limited by a magical barrier. Player two plays on a screen as an adventuring mouse. The mouse’s small size allows him walk through doorways in the barrier and climb the tower ruins. The Owl-god and mouse must form an uneasy alliance, each unable to reach the prison key and escape on their own.

We do not plan on developing Cairn into a full game. Instead, we view Cairn as a sandbox. It is a place for us to experiment with VR gameplay and a platform to explore ideas and techniques.

# The Owl God
The VR player plays as a mystic owl-god, trapped long ago within a magical prison. Her physical form is built from the broken remains of a statue once made in her honor, of which only the hands and portions of the head remain.

[2up Headshot]
[2up hand]

The owl-god cannot reach beyond the magical barrier of the prison, but she still has a formidable strength. Portions of the ruins extend through the barrier, with her reach. She is able to move platforms, rooms, and even entire sections of the prison to her advantage. She can also uproot trees, clear obstacles from the ruins, and pick up the adventurer-mouse with ease.

[2up/1up pick up mouse, maybe looking at picked up mouse?]

# The Adventurer Mouse
The second player takes on the role of an adventurer-mouse. His history is unclear. Perhaps he has come specifically to help the owl-god, perhaps he has also been imprisoned, perhaps he has come by mere chance.

[2up Cowboy shot]
[2up Doorway shot]

The adventurer-mouse is played like a first-person platformer or shooter using a standard screen and a gamepad or mouse and keyboard. His small size allows him to sneak through the doorways in the barrier and make his through the prison ruins.

[wide shot running along ledge, maybe with owl-god watching  ___o.o______m____]

The adventurer-mouse can also activate switches and carry items like the prison key.

[2up activating switch]
[2up carry key]



# The Prison

The physical prison has fallen to ruin, but it's magic remains, holding the stone fragments together and binding the owl-god within. The key to the prison rests in clear view but out of reach at the top of the tower on the other side of the barrier. The players must work together, solve the puzzles of the prison tower, and find a path through the ruins to the key.
